This scoring utility generates percentile values for each of the major sections on the MacArthur-Bates Communicative Development Inventories in English (Marchman et al., 2023) and Mexican Spanish (Jackson-Maldonado et al., 2003). To generate percentiles, we applied generalized additive models in the beta distribution family using monotonic P-splines over age. Models were fit using `gamlss` (Stransinopoulos et al. 2017) in the R statistical package and were weighted to more accurately reflect the demographic characteristics of the US (based on 2020 census values) in terms of maternal education, race, and ethnicity. (See Marchman et al., 2023 for more information). 

Norming values for the American English Words & Gestures form are identical to those in the 3rd Ed. of the User’s Guide and Manual (Marchman et al., 2023). Values for the American English Words & Sentences form are identical to those in the User’s Guide except that they have been extrapolated to 36 months of age.  Values for the Mexican Spanish forms are based on the norming sample as described in Jackson-Maldonado et al. (2003). New values were re-generated using the same statistical procedure as for the English norms, but no socio-demographic weighting was applied. Values for the Mexican Spanish Words & Sentences form have also been extrapolated out to 36 months of age.

For administrations with child ages that fall outside of the normative ranges for the Words & Gestures (8-18 months) and Words & Sentences (16 to 36 months) form, the user can choose to not generate a percentile (i.e., NA) or to generate the percentile based on the nearest normed age (e.g., a Words & Gestures percentile for a child who is 20 months will be generated in relation to norming values for 18 months). Caution is advised when interpreting percentile values for administrations that fall outside of the normative age ranges.
